Ff154 css typed OM cleanup (#44945)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/cssstylevalue/tostring/index.md

---
title: "CSSStyleValue: toString() method"
short-title: toString()
slug: Web/API/CSSStyleValue/toString
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.CSSStyleValue.toString
---

{{APIRef("CSS Typed Object Model API")}}

> The **`toString()`** method of the {{domxref("CSSStyleValue")}} interface is a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} that returns a serialization of the value as a string of CSS text.

Reviewer: this needs some unpacking and simplifying :)

=> a stringifier that returns the value as CSS text?

Author: Yes, that is awkward. I went with "that returns the value formatted as a string of standard CSS text.".

## Syntax

```js-nolint
toString()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A string.

The exact serialization depends on how the `CSSStyleValue` object was obtained:

> - If the object was created by parsing a string, such as with {{domxref("CSSStyleValue.parse_static", "CSSStyleValue.parse()")}}, the returned string is that original string.

Reviewer: or
```suggestion
- If the object was created by parsing a string, such as with {{domxref("CSSStyleValue.parse_static", "CSSStyleValue.parse()")}}, the method returns the original string that was parsed.
```

- If the object was constructed directly, such as with a [`CSS` factory function](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS/factory_functions_static) or a subclass constructor, the returned string is generated according to serialization rules specific to that subclass.

> - If the object was read from the CSSOM, such as with {{domxref("Element.computedStyleMap()")}} or {{domxref("HTMLElement.attributeStyleMap")}}, the returned string follows the CSSOM serialization rules.

Reviewer: can we link "rules" to this page/section - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Object_Model/CSS_value_serialization#when_and_how_values_are_serialized

Author: Great idea. Added at the end of the description

## Examples

### Basic usage

```js
// Parsed from a string: returns the original string
const length1 = CSSNumericValue.parse("42.0px");
length1.toString(); // "42.0px"

// Constructed directly with a CSS factory function: subclass-specific serialization
const length2 = CSS.px(42.0);
length2.toString(); // "42px"

// Read from the CSSOM: follows CSSOM serialization rules

> element.style.width = "42.0px";

Reviewer: element declaration is missing here

Author: Thanks. Added a line to create it. FWIW in these kinds of very small fragments I don't consider omitting the declaration as a bug - readers don't have any real cognitive load to work out where the element might come from.
